README.md, before:

# fuzzycomplete [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/aliask/fuzzycomplete.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/aliask/fuzzycomplete)

jQuery plugin for fuzzy search in an autocomplete form, which uses [Fuse.js](https://github.com/krisk/Fuse).

By harnessing the flexibility Fuse.js, this plugin allows you to do cool stuff, like multiple search keys, case sensitivity selection, customized result ordering, etc. Oh and fuzzy searching, obviously.

## Usage

Fuzzycomplete replaces the selected `<input>` element with a similarly named `<select>` within a HTML form.

The `<input>` field is still visible, and the `<select>` is not displayed, giving the user the ability to free-type their selection before being presented with a list of valid options.

The simplest usage of the plugin is to simply call the plugin on your jQuery selected elements with one parameter, a JSON encoded list of elements to autocomplete.

## Options

`display` (type: `String` or `Function`)

Defines which property of the supplied JSON data will be used as the displayed text. If function is defined, the function is called during each row to generate the results box row. The function signature should be: `function (result, key) { .. }`.

`displayValue` (type: `String` or `Function`)

Controls what data is displayed in the input box after a selection has been made from the results box. Can either be a string to define the key of the result data to display or a function with the signature `function (result, key) { .. }` where the return value will be the data inputted into the input box on selection.

`key` (type: `String`)

Defines which property of the supplied JSON data will be used as the `value` parameter for the hidden `<select>` element.

`resultsLimit` (type: `Integer`)

Defines the maximum number of results to display at a time.

`fuseOptions` (type: `Object`)

See the [Fuse.js github](https://github.com/krisk/Fuse) for full documentation.

## Examples

### Basic Usage

Fuzzycomplete can be called with no options, simply with the data to be searched via jQuery.

In this case it will search all fields supplied within the JSON data, displaying and outputting the first key.

#### Code

```javascript
var companies = [
        {"companyName":"Aperture Science"},
        {"companyName":"MomCorp"},
        {"companyName":"Wayne Enterprises"},
        {"companyName":"Umbrella Corp"},
        {"companyName":"Gringotts"},
        {"companyName":"Globex"}
      ];

$(document).ready(function(){
  $("#companyPicker").fuzzyComplete(companies);
});
```

### Advanced usage

#### Searching multiple sets of data

You might have a set of data which has two (or more) ways of referring to a particular item.

An example might be airports, which have:

- City Name
- Airport Code

To help users, you can allow them to search by either type.

##### Code

```javascript
var airports = [
                {"airportCode":"MEL","cityName":"Melbourne, Australia"},
                {"airportCode":"LAX","cityName":"Los Angeles, USA"},
                {"airportCode":"LHR","cityName":"Heathrow, London"},
                {"airportCode":"HKG","cityName":"Hong Kong"},
                {"airportCode":"NRT","cityName":"Narita, Tokyo, Japan"},
                {"airportCode":"FRA","cityName":"Frankfurt, Germany"}
              ];
var fuseOptions = { keys: ["airportCode", "cityName"] };
var options = { display: "cityName", key: "airportCode", fuseOptions: fuseOptions };

$(document).ready(function(){
  $("#airportPicker").fuzzyComplete(airports, options);
}
```

#### Non-searchable output

You might use an internal value to track items (a database key, for example), but you don't wish for this value to be searchable. Only fields in the "keys" section of fuseOptions will be searched, so simply omit fields you don't wish to be searched.

##### Code

```javascript
var items = [
              {"itemCode":"item3442","itemName":"Bag of doorknobs"},
              {"itemCode":"item3446","itemName":"Blinker fluid"},
              {"itemCode":"item3479","itemName":"Widgets"},
              {"itemCode":"item3495","itemName":"Firefly class transport ship"},
              {"itemCode":"item3400","itemName":"Perpetual motion machine"},
              {"itemCode":"item3454","itemName":"Penrose triangle"}
            ];
var fuseOptions = { keys: ["itemName"] };
var options = { display: "itemName", key: "itemCode", fuseOptions: fuseOptions };

$(document).ready(function(){
  $("#itemPicker").fuzzyComplete(items, options);
});
```


#### Custom ResultsBox & Input Box Selection

You might want to format results in a special format or combine fields from the search results. You can pass a function as the display option to define custom html in the resultbox. You can use displayValue to select what value to display in the input text box.

##### Code

```javascript
var items = [
              {"itemCode":"item3442","itemName":"Bag of doorknobs"},
              {"itemCode":"item3446","itemName":"Blinker fluid"},
              {"itemCode":"item3479","itemName":"Widgets"},
              {"itemCode":"item3495","itemName":"Firefly class transport ship"},
              {"itemCode":"item3400","itemName":"Perpetual motion machine"},
              {"itemCode":"item3454","itemName":"Penrose triangle"}
            ];
var fuseOptions = { keys: ["itemName"] };
var displayFunction = function(result,id) {
  return id + ". <b>" + result['itemName'] "</b> - " + result['itemCode'];
};
var options = {
  display: displayFunction,
  displayValue: "itemName",
  key: "itemCode",
  fuseOptions: fuseOptions
};

$(document).ready(function(){
  $("#customResultsBoxPicker").fuzzyComplete(items, options);
});
```

Commit message:

adding extraData and allowFreeInput option

README.md, after:

# fuzzycomplete [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/aliask/fuzzycomplete.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/aliask/fuzzycomplete)

jQuery plugin for fuzzy search in an autocomplete form, which uses [Fuse.js](https://github.com/krisk/Fuse).

By harnessing the flexibility Fuse.js, this plugin allows you to do cool stuff, like multiple search keys, case sensitivity selection, customized result ordering, etc. Oh and fuzzy searching, obviously.

## Usage

Fuzzycomplete replaces the selected `<input>` element with a similarly named `<select>` within a HTML form.

The `<input>` field is still visible, and the `<select>` is not displayed, giving the user the ability to free-type their selection before being presented with a list of valid options.

The simplest usage of the plugin is to simply call the plugin on your jQuery selected elements with one parameter, a JSON encoded list of elements to autocomplete.

## Options

`display` (type: `String` or `Function`)

Defines which property of the supplied JSON data will be used as the displayed text. If function is defined, the function is called during each row to generate the results box row. The function signature should be: `function (result, key) { .. }`.

`displayValue` (type: `String` or `Function`)

Controls what data is displayed in the input box after a selection has been made from the results box. Can either be a string to define the key of the result data to display or a function with the signature `function (result, key) { .. }` where the return value will be the data inputted into the input box on selection.

`key` (type: `String` or `Function`)

Defines which property of the supplied JSON data will be used as the `value` parameter for the hidden `<select>` element.

`extraData` (type: `String` or `Function`)

Defines what data will be set to the `extraData` key in the selectBox/searchBox  data. String will be the key while a function will utilize the same signature as display (`function (result, key) { .. }`). If extraData option is not set, the extraData field will be left undefined.

`resultsLimit` (type: `Integer`)

Defines the maximum number of results to display at a time.

`allowFreeInput` (type: `Boolean`)

Default false. Disregards everything mentioned in the usage section and does not replace the input element with a select element. This allows free form text that does not match a select element to be inputted. With `allowFreeInput` false, text inputted that does not match a selection would be discarded (field would be blank) on form submission.

`fuseOptions` (type: `Object`)

See the [Fuse.js github](https://github.com/krisk/Fuse) for full documentation.

## Examples

### Basic Usage

Fuzzycomplete can be called with no options, simply with the data to be searched via jQuery.

In this case it will search all fields supplied within the JSON data, displaying and outputting the first key.

#### Code

```javascript
var companies = [
        {"companyName":"Aperture Science"},
        {"companyName":"MomCorp"},
        {"companyName":"Wayne Enterprises"},
        {"companyName":"Umbrella Corp"},
        {"companyName":"Gringotts"},
        {"companyName":"Globex"}
      ];

$(document).ready(function(){
  $("#companyPicker").fuzzyComplete(companies);
});
```

### Advanced usage

#### Searching multiple sets of data

You might have a set of data which has two (or more) ways of referring to a particular item.

An example might be airports, which have:

- City Name
- Airport Code

To help users, you can allow them to search by either type.

##### Code

```javascript
var airports = [
                {"airportCode":"MEL","cityName":"Melbourne, Australia"},
                {"airportCode":"LAX","cityName":"Los Angeles, USA"},
                {"airportCode":"LHR","cityName":"Heathrow, London"},
                {"airportCode":"HKG","cityName":"Hong Kong"},
                {"airportCode":"NRT","cityName":"Narita, Tokyo, Japan"},
                {"airportCode":"FRA","cityName":"Frankfurt, Germany"}
              ];
var fuseOptions = { keys: ["airportCode", "cityName"] };
var options = { display: "cityName", key: "airportCode", fuseOptions: fuseOptions };

$(document).ready(function(){
  $("#airportPicker").fuzzyComplete(airports, options);
}
```

#### Non-searchable output

You might use an internal value to track items (a database key, for example), but you don't wish for this value to be searchable. Only fields in the "keys" section of fuseOptions will be searched, so simply omit fields you don't wish to be searched.

##### Code

```javascript
var items = [
              {"itemCode":"item3442","itemName":"Bag of doorknobs"},
              {"itemCode":"item3446","itemName":"Blinker fluid"},
              {"itemCode":"item3479","itemName":"Widgets"},
              {"itemCode":"item3495","itemName":"Firefly class transport ship"},
              {"itemCode":"item3400","itemName":"Perpetual motion machine"},
              {"itemCode":"item3454","itemName":"Penrose triangle"}
            ];
var fuseOptions = { keys: ["itemName"] };
var options = { display: "itemName", key: "itemCode", fuseOptions: fuseOptions };

$(document).ready(function(){
  $("#itemPicker").fuzzyComplete(items, options);
});
```


#### Custom ResultsBox & Input Box Selection

You might want to format results in a special format or combine fields from the search results. You can pass a function as the display option to define custom html in the resultbox. You can use displayValue to select what value to display in the input text box.

##### Code

```javascript
var items = [
              {"itemCode":"item3442","itemName":"Bag of doorknobs"},
              {"itemCode":"item3446","itemName":"Blinker fluid"},
              {"itemCode":"item3479","itemName":"Widgets"},
              {"itemCode":"item3495","itemName":"Firefly class transport ship"},
              {"itemCode":"item3400","itemName":"Perpetual motion machine"},
              {"itemCode":"item3454","itemName":"Penrose triangle"}
            ];
var fuseOptions = { keys: ["itemName"] };
var displayFunction = function(result,id) {
  return id + ". <b>" + result['itemName'] "</b> - " + result['itemCode'];
};
var options = {
  display: displayFunction,
  displayValue: "itemName",
  key: "itemCode",
  fuseOptions: fuseOptions
};

$(document).ready(function(){
  $("#customResultsBoxPicker").fuzzyComplete(items, options);
});
```
